docs/src/content/docs/config/file.mdx, before:

---
title: Configuration File
description: Learn about the railpack.json configuration file format and options
---

import { Aside } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

<Aside type="note" title="Beta file format">
  The config file format is not yet finalized and subject to change.
</Aside>

Railpack will look for a `railpack.json` file in the root of the directory being
built. You can override this by setting the `RAILPACK_CONFIG_FILE` environment
variable to a path relative to the directory being built.

If found, that configuration will be used to change how the plan is built.

A config file looks something like this:

```json
{
  "$schema": "https://schema.railpack.com",
  "steps": {
    "install": {
      "commands": ["npm install"]
    },
    "build": {
      "inputs": [{ "step": "install" }],
      "commands": ["...", "./my-custom-build.sh"]
    }
  },
  "deploy": {
    "startCommand": "node dist/index.js"
  }
}
```

## Layers

Layers define where a step gets its filesystem from. They can be:

- Another step's output
- A Docker image
- Local files

The first input layer for a step is the base file system and cannot include any
filter.

Layers are used both for steps and for the deploy section. The deploy section
explicitly has a `base` layer defined that is used as the base file system for
the final image. For example, the layers of a Node build might look like this:

```json
"deploy": {
  "base": {
    "image": "ghcr.io/railwayapp/railpack-runtime:latest"
  },
  "inputs": [
    {
      "step": "packages:mise",
      "include": [
        "/mise/shims",
        "/mise/installs",
        // ...
      ]
    },
    {
      "step": "build",
      "include": ["."]
    }
  ]
}
```

### Step Layer

Use another step's output as a layer:

```json
{
  "step": "install",
  "include": ["."], // "." represents the working directory (/app)
  "exclude": ["node_modules"]
}
```

### Image Layer

Use a Docker image as a layer:

```json
{
  "image": "macabees/neofetch",
  "include": ["/usr/bin/neofetch"]
}
```

### Local Layer

Use local files as a layer:

```json
{
  "local": true,
  "include": ["."]
}
```

### Layer Filters

All layer types support these options:

| Field     | Description                                             |
| :-------- | :------------------------------------------------------ |
| `include` | Files or directories to include                         |
| `exclude` | Files or directories to exclude                         |

## Array Extending

You can use the `...` special syntax to extend arrays in the configuration. This
is useful when you want to add items to an existing array rather than override
it completely.

For example:

```json
{
  "steps": {
    "build": {
      // Runs ./my-custom-build.sh after the auto-generated build commands
      "commands": ["...", "./my-custom-build.sh"]
    }
  },
  "deploy": {
    "inputs": [
      "...",

      // Copies the neofetch binary into the final image on top of the auto-generated image
      { "image": "macabees/neofetch", "include": ["/usr/bin/neofetch"] }
    ]
  }
}
```

## Root Configuration

The root configuration can have these fields:

| Field              | Description                                                                     |
| :----------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `provider`         | The provider to use for deployment (optional, autodetected by default)          |
| `buildAptPackages` | List of apt packages to install during the build step                           |
| `packages`         | Map of package name to package version                                          |
| `caches`           | Map of cache name to cache definitions. The cache names are referenced in steps |
| `secrets`          | List of secrets that should be made available to commands                       |
| `steps`            | Map of step names to step definitions                                          |


For example:

```json
{
  "provider": "node",
  "buildAptPackages": ["git", "curl"],
  "packages": {
    "node": "22",
    "python": "3.13"
  },
}
```

## Caches

Caches are used to speed up builds by storing and reusing files between builds.
Each cache has a type and a directory. Caches **are not persisted** in the final
image.

The cache name is referenced in the `caches` field of a step. A cache has the
following properties:

| Field       | Description                                                           |
| :---------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `directory` | The directory to cache                                                |
| `type`      | The type of cache (either "shared" or "locked", defaults to "shared") |

For example:

```json
{
  "caches": {
    "npm-install": {
      "directory": "/root/.npm",
      "type": "shared"
    },
    "apt": {
      "directory": "/var/cache/apt",
      "type": "locked"
    }
  }
}
```

### Cache Types

- `shared`: Multiple builds can use this cache simultaneously (used for package
  manager caches)
- `locked`: Only one build can use this cache at a time (used for apt caches to
  prevent concurrent package installations)

## Steps

Each step in the build process can have:

| Field          | Description                                                             |
| :------------- | :---------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `inputs`       | List of layers for this step (from other steps, images, or local files) |
| `commands`     | List of commands to run in this step                                    |
| `secrets`      | List of secrets that this step uses                                     |
| `assets`       | Mapping of name to file contents referenced in file commands            |
| `variables`    | Mapping of name to variable values referenced in variable commands      |
| `caches`       | List of cache IDs available to all commands in this step                |
| `deployOutputs`| List of filters that specify which parts of this step should be included in the final image |

## Commands

A list of commands to run in a step. For example:

```json
{
  "commands": [
    // Copy the package.json file from the local context into the build
    { "src": "package.json", "dest": "package.json" },

    // Install dependencies
    {
      "cmd": "npm install",
      "customName": "Install dependencies"
    }

    // Make the node_modules/.bin directory available in the PATH
    { "path": "node_modules/.bin" }
  ]
}
```

### Exec command

Executes a shell command during the build (e.g. 'go build' or 'npm install').

| Field        | Description                                      |
| :----------- | :----------------------------------------------- |
| `cmd`        | The shell command to execute                     |
| `customName` | Optional custom name to display for this command |

If the command is a string, it is assumed to be an exec command in the format
`sh -c '<cmd>'`.

### Path command

Adds a directory to the global PATH environment variable. This path will be
available to all subsequent commands in the build.

| Field  | Description                                                   |
| :----- | :------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `path` | Directory path to add to the global PATH environment variable |

### Copy command

Copies files or directories during the build. Can copy from a source image or
local context.

| Field   | Description                                             |
| :------ | :------------------------------------------------------ |
| `image` | Optional source image to copy from (e.g. 'node:18')     |
| `src`   | Source path to copy from (file or directory)            |
| `dest`  | Destination path to copy to (will be created if needed) |

### File command

Creates or modifies a file during the build with optional Unix file permissions.

| Field        | Description                                             |
| :----------- | :------------------------------------------------------ |
| `path`       | Directory path where the file should be created         |
| `name`       | Name of the file to create                              |
| `mode`       | Optional Unix file permissions mode (e.g. 0644)         |
| `customName` | Optional custom name to display for this file operation |

### String format

Commands can also be specified using a string format:

- `npm install` - Executes the command
- `PATH:/usr/local/bin` - Adds to PATH
- `COPY:src dest` - Copies files

## Deploy

The deploy section configures how the container runs:

| Field          | Description                                                             |
| :------------- | :---------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `base`         | The base layer for the deploy step (typically a runtime image)          |
| `startCommand` | The command to run when the container starts                            |
| `variables`    | Environment variables available to the start command                    |
| `paths`        | Paths to prepend to the $PATH environment variable                      |
| `inputs`       | List of layers for the deploy step (from steps, images, or local files) |
| `aptPackages`  | List of Apt packages to install in the final image                      |

## Schema

The schema for the config file is available at https://schema.railpack.com. Add
it to your `railpack.json` to get autocomplete and validation in your editor.

```json
{
  "$schema": "https://schema.railpack.com"
}

Commit message:

docs: minor docs and comments (#309)
* refactor: remove obvious comments

* docs: minor comments

* docs: make it clear that cache folders cannot be removed

docs/src/content/docs/config/file.mdx, after:

---
title: Configuration File
description: Learn about the railpack.json configuration file format and options
---

import { Aside } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

<Aside type="note" title="Beta file format">
  The config file format is not yet finalized and subject to change.
</Aside>

Railpack will look for a `railpack.json` file in the root of the directory being
built. You can override this by setting the `RAILPACK_CONFIG_FILE` environment
variable to a path relative to the directory being built.

If found, that configuration will be used to change how the plan is built.

A config file looks something like this:

```json
{
  "$schema": "https://schema.railpack.com",
  "steps": {
    "install": {
      "commands": ["npm install"]
    },
    "build": {
      "inputs": [{ "step": "install" }],
      "commands": ["...", "./my-custom-build.sh"]
    }
  },
  "deploy": {
    "startCommand": "node dist/index.js"
  }
}
```

## Layers

Layers define where a step gets its filesystem from. They can be:

- Another step's output
- A Docker image
- Local files

The first input layer for a step is the base file system and cannot include any
filter.

Layers are used both for steps and for the deploy section. The deploy section
explicitly has a `base` layer defined that is used as the base file system for
the final image. For example, the layers of a Node build might look like this:

```json
"deploy": {
  "base": {
    "image": "ghcr.io/railwayapp/railpack-runtime:latest"
  },
  "inputs": [
    {
      "step": "packages:mise",
      "include": [
        "/mise/shims",
        "/mise/installs",
        // ...
      ]
    },
    {
      "step": "build",
      "include": ["."]
    }
  ]
}
```

### Step Layer

Use another step's output as a layer:

```json
{
  "step": "install",
  "include": ["."], // "." represents the working directory (/app)
  "exclude": ["node_modules"]
}
```

### Image Layer

Use a Docker image as a layer:

```json
{
  "image": "macabees/neofetch",
  "include": ["/usr/bin/neofetch"]
}
```

### Local Layer

Use local files as a layer:

```json
{
  "local": true,
  "include": ["."]
}
```

### Layer Filters

All layer types support these options:

| Field     | Description                                             |
| :-------- | :------------------------------------------------------ |
| `include` | Files or directories to include                         |
| `exclude` | Files or directories to exclude                         |

## Array Extending

You can use the `...` special syntax to extend arrays in the configuration. This
is useful when you want to add items to an existing array rather than override
it completely.

For example:

```json
{
  "steps": {
    "build": {
      // Runs ./my-custom-build.sh after the auto-generated build commands
      "commands": ["...", "./my-custom-build.sh"]
    }
  },
  "deploy": {
    "inputs": [
      "...",

      // Copies the neofetch binary into the final image on top of the auto-generated image
      { "image": "macabees/neofetch", "include": ["/usr/bin/neofetch"] }
    ]
  }
}
```

## Root Configuration

The root configuration can have these fields:

| Field              | Description                                                                     |
| :----------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `provider`         | The provider to use for deployment (optional, autodetected by default)          |
| `buildAptPackages` | List of apt packages to install during the build step                           |
| `packages`         | Map of package name to package version                                          |
| `caches`           | Map of cache name to cache definitions. The cache names are referenced in steps |
| `secrets`          | List of secrets that should be made available to commands                       |
| `steps`            | Map of step names to step definitions                                          |


For example:

```json
{
  "provider": "node",
  "buildAptPackages": ["git", "curl"],
  "packages": {
    "node": "22",
    "python": "3.13"
  },
}
```

## Caches

Caches are used to speed up builds by storing and reusing files between builds.
Each cache has a type and a directory. Caches **are not persisted** in the final
image. Cache folders cannot be removed by build scripts once defined (you'll receive
a `EBUSY: resource busy or locked` error if you try).

The cache name is referenced in the `caches` field of a step. A cache has the
following properties:

| Field       | Description                                                           |
| :---------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `directory` | The directory to cache                                                |
| `type`      | The type of cache (either "shared" or "locked", defaults to "shared") |

For example:

```json
{
  "caches": {
    "npm-install": {
      "directory": "/root/.npm",
      "type": "shared"
    },
    "apt": {
      "directory": "/var/cache/apt",
      "type": "locked"
    }
  }
}
```

### Cache Types

- `shared`: Multiple builds can use this cache simultaneously (used for package
  manager caches)
- `locked`: Only one build can use this cache at a time (used for apt caches to
  prevent concurrent package installations)

## Steps

Each step in the build process can have:

| Field          | Description                                                             |
| :------------- | :---------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `inputs`       | List of layers for this step (from other steps, images, or local files) |
| `commands`     | List of commands to run in this step                                    |
| `secrets`      | List of secrets that this step uses                                     |
| `assets`       | Mapping of name to file contents referenced in file commands            |
| `variables`    | Mapping of name to variable values referenced in variable commands      |
| `caches`       | List of cache IDs available to all commands in this step                |
| `deployOutputs`| List of filters that specify which parts of this step should be included in the final image |

## Commands

A list of commands to run in a step. For example:

```json
{
  "commands": [
    // Copy the package.json file from the local context into the build
    { "src": "package.json", "dest": "package.json" },

    // Install dependencies
    {
      "cmd": "npm install",
      "customName": "Install dependencies"
    }

    // Make the node_modules/.bin directory available in the PATH
    { "path": "node_modules/.bin" }
  ]
}
```

### Exec command

Executes a shell command during the build (e.g. 'go build' or 'npm install').

| Field        | Description                                      |
| :----------- | :----------------------------------------------- |
| `cmd`        | The shell command to execute                     |
| `customName` | Optional custom name to display for this command |

If the command is a string, it is assumed to be an exec command in the format
`sh -c '<cmd>'`.

### Path command

Adds a directory to the global PATH environment variable. This path will be
available to all subsequent commands in the build.

| Field  | Description                                                   |
| :----- | :------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `path` | Directory path to add to the global PATH environment variable |

### Copy command

Copies files or directories during the build. Can copy from a source image or
local context.

| Field   | Description                                             |
| :------ | :------------------------------------------------------ |
| `image` | Optional source image to copy from (e.g. 'node:18')     |
| `src`   | Source path to copy from (file or directory)            |
| `dest`  | Destination path to copy to (will be created if needed) |

### File command

Creates or modifies a file during the build with optional Unix file permissions.

| Field        | Description                                             |
| :----------- | :------------------------------------------------------ |
| `path`       | Directory path where the file should be created         |
| `name`       | Name of the file to create                              |
| `mode`       | Optional Unix file permissions mode (e.g. 0644)         |
| `customName` | Optional custom name to display for this file operation |

### String format

Commands can also be specified using a string format:

- `npm install` - Executes the command
- `PATH:/usr/local/bin` - Adds to PATH
- `COPY:src dest` - Copies files

## Deploy

The deploy section configures how the container runs:

| Field          | Description                                                             |
| :------------- | :---------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `base`         | The base layer for the deploy step (typically a runtime image)          |
| `startCommand` | The command to run when the container starts                            |
| `variables`    | Environment variables available to the start command                    |
| `paths`        | Paths to prepend to the $PATH environment variable                      |
| `inputs`       | List of layers for the deploy step (from steps, images, or local files) |
| `aptPackages`  | List of Apt packages to install in the final image                      |

## Schema

The schema for the config file is available at https://schema.railpack.com. Add
it to your `railpack.json` to get autocomplete and validation in your editor.

```json
{
  "$schema": "https://schema.railpack.com"
}
